i want to open this video by saying i
have no nostalgia for the year
1988 whatsoever i have no nostalgia
for this video game that you see on
screen
galaxy force whatsoever and most people
in the audience
most people who could possibly get
interested in the topic of this video
will not be motivated by nostalgia
but by a very different and more
beneficial instinct
called curiosity do you know what this
is
this is an audio cassette tape
and the arcade game you just saw galaxy
force
a high-end 3d arcade game
human beings attempted to program it on
an
audio cassette tape to play
on the commodore 64. are you curious
nostalgia in as much as it applies to
the situation
will only lead to disappointment but if
just
hearing about that makes you curious
maybe
just maybe you're going to get a little
bit interested in commodore 64
hardware or software in 2021
here's a telling review from an obscure
website you might have heard of
amazon.com
titled meh what was i thinking
nostalgia wins again i was a huge c64
fan back in the day
i had a complete system at hundreds of
games literally over 100 discs
each with multiple games unfortunately
my brain
remembered them being a lot better than
they are
i don't know what i was expecting
considering these are 8-bit graphics
but p-u these games are bad
much more succinctly this reviewer says
don't buy it
games very hard to play and don't play
like you remember not worth it
look at this what what the hell is this
this
is an audio cassette tape
with the notorious name altered beast
emblazoned on the top now altered beast
was a terrible game in arcades to begin
with it was a terrible game
on the sega genesis but what a concept
can you believe
that there is an 8-bit computer version
of this
for the commodore 64. is it good is it
enjoyable no it's just bizarre you just
feel like you're transported into this
parallel universe
where human beings worked against
unbelievably limiting
hardware constraints to try to achieve
these impossible
graphical and gameplay effects with most
of the time
just disastrous laughable outcomes most
not all the time do you remember this
game
do you remember xenophobe there's a
difference between something being
memorable and being good but for many of
us this was a
memorable game even if it had been
awful oh yeah notice down there in the
fine print
now available for your commodore 64
cassette
yes that's right and you know what it
just might be
the best version of this game ever made
and it certainly
as with so many things in the commerce
64 has the best
[Music]
music
back when i was a teenager i used to
watch tv while washing dishes
and i have this memory of a debate
between the two
famous film critics siskel and ebert
and one of them said to the other look
this movie
it's not good enough to see in theaters
but i'd recommend people
rent it on vhs cassette and i'll always
remember
you know ebert argued back here and said
no that doesn't make any sense how can
you possibly think
five dollars matters more than wasting
two hours of your life
either this is worth spending two hours
doing
or it is not when you are looking
at alice in wonderland unfolding on
screen you might feel
you might feel a little bit intrigued
may feel a little bit curious are you
really willing to put two hours
of your adult life into this and even if
it were
just two hours do you realize how much
of that time might go into
finicky self-defeating struggles to get
the emulator to work properly to get the
hardware or the software to work
properly
it is true that in 2021 the cost of
playing the entire
library of commodore 64 games has gotten
shockingly close to zero whether you're
going to buy the new hardware or the c64
mini or whether you're gonna get set up
on your own computer
but but but but ultimately
you must value your own time
much more than the mere question of how
many
dollars or cents you're willing to put
into it if anyone expects just a proud
recitation of the accomplishments of my
administration
i say let's leave that to history we're
not finished yet
perhaps 3 000 video games
were written for the commodore 64.
the number is so high it's a matter of
speculation
if you believed that just 10 of those
games
were worth playing or a good use of your
time right now
in the year 2021 it would be a
no-brainer
should sign right up you don't really
believe that
do you you don't believe it's ten
percent
you don't believe it's five percent if
you
really stop and think about it you're
wondering is it even
one percent how close to zero
is it is there anything you could
justify
spending five minutes or ten minutes
playing
on this unbelievably awful footnote in
the history of computing
and i know what you're thinking you're
thinking well even if each game is only
interesting for
30 seconds or 60 seconds just have a
look just have a glance just out of
curiosity what would it be like if
someone tried to make an
8-bit version of space harrier and for
some reason i wasn't interested in the
sega master system 8-bit version of
space air
what would it be like if someone made an
8-bit version of shadow dancer of
shinobi on and on it goes
what if i want to have a look isn't it
the case that this device makes it as
fast and simple for me to just try them
out for a few minutes or
a few seconds just as if i were taking a
nintendo or sega cartridge and
popping it into a console no
no it does not
this device promises to take what is
already a
complex and involuted hobby adored by a
tiny number of people
and make it easily accessible to the
masses and in that
it certainly fails in order to use this
device
you will need much more than the useless
joystick that comes with it
the joystick is useless and yet
requisite because it has an inscrutable
system of four buttons
that are neither numbered nor color
coded that you must use for
all system functions but otherwise it is
not a stick that is going to bring any
joy into your life
oh no in order to use the commodore 64
in addition to plugging in your own usb
keyboard and your own usb hard drive and
your own usb
hub because the number of ports is
grossly inadequate
you'll also need multiple joysticks
oh and you think i was able to use this
joystick
nope it should work on pretty much any
system that you can fit a usb
plug into but mysteriously this joystick
doesn't work
whereas this one does and no
the reason can't possibly be because of
the difference between
sanwa and hoary components so what many
consumers imagine would be
simple casual entertainment is pretty
soon revealed
to be a horrifyingly complex
time-consuming
chore now you got me all cheesed off
i'm gonna play some temple of abshine
forget you guys
oh my hit points are like inexcusable in
this dungeon man
i need to find some elixir or something
i think
curiosity is an important positive part
of adult life we don't stop learning
and we shouldn't we should kindle the
flame of curiosity whenever it happens
to come up
and in my case i admit i got drawn into
this
because i was curious about the music
commodore 64 is home to some
unbelievably awful games with just
terribly primitive graphics awful
controls
video games that feel like a waste of
time even when they're compared to other
video games that on some intellectual
level
we're aware factually are a waste of our
time
the music still means something to me
today and it was some of the first music
i listened to as a child
shaping my taste in music before i got
interested in
blues jazz hip-hop rap music the other
forms of music that were to
define my teenage years and in some ways
to haunt my adult life
when i heard that so many of the games i
had known in my childhood
from wonder boy to rampage to the
simpsons arcade to zaxxon
when i'd heard that so many games i was
familiar with
from other consoles did have
a commodore 64 version i was curious
and in acting on that curiosity the
experience you have again and again is
one wow it's really hard to get this
loading
two wow it's really hard to get the
controls to work
three wow how do i get past this option
screen
four oh it doesn't work anyway five oh
do i have to do some kind of low level
hacking
some kind of command line trick to get
this to work should i just give up oh oh
now it's finally working
and then steps six and seven that follow
soon thereafter
almost always almost are wow
i can't believe how unbelievably awful
this is
two i can't imagine how disappointed
children would have been
when they received this brightly colored
box from their parents back in 1988 and
sat down to play this
and three i can't believe anyone anyone
imagined
this was decent or passable when
compared to the sega master system the
nes
or whatever other version it is that
you're already familiar with
few gamers familiar with the 8-bit era
will be unaware of bubble bubble
and the cute dinosaur slash dragons bob
and hope
it spawned a series of sequels and the
characters are probably most famous now
for the puzzle bubble or buster move
series
the evil baron von blubber has
transformed our heroes into bubble
blowing reptiles
and captured their girlfriends in true
80s gaming style
so we're off to the cave of wonders to
defeat bvb and get them back
i laughed out loud
trying to play bubble bobble on the
commodore 64
with my girlfriend for all of two
minutes
three minutes it probably took us three
minutes to get through the title screens
and the options to get the game running
and then i just sat there laughing and
laughing because i could not believe how
awful it was
and yeah it was made funnier to me
because before i bought this thing i
googled around i watched a few other
youtube videos
and there were all these losers on
youtube who are telling you
specifically that this game is
unbelievably wonderful and just in
general
regaling you with what a great
experience it is to sit down and play
these authentic commodore 64 games on
this
totally inauthentic piece of garbage
simulated hardware
the vast majority of games are terrible
and then depending on your sense of
humor a significant percentage of them
are laugh out loud hilariously
awful you will sit and reflect on
human nature itself you will wonder why
did human beings do this to themselves
you will wonder what were the
programmers thinking you will wonder
what were the executives at sega or
atari thinking
and you will wonder what were the people
who played this
for so many hours as children thinking
what were their parents thinking
and it remains mind-blowing to wonder
what are these people thinking
now because the internet is full of
losers who are still pouring so many
hours into this today in 2021.
oh my hit points are like inexcusable in
this dungeon man
i first heard of temple of apshai
because
strong bad made jokes about it strongbat
the fictional character on homestar
runner.com
he made jokes about temple of abstract
that's all i've heard of this game
people are unironically playing and
loving this game in 2021 but
but well it's true that it's not
10 of the games on the system and it's
not five percent and it's
not even one percent of the games in the
system
there are some games some for which the
best version
ever made is on the commodore 64.
and so now i will give you my top 10
list
that is precisely two video games long
there are two video games i can tell you
where the best version
you could ever possibly play is on this
system
and nowhere else if you are looking for
an excuse
to buy this thing or to sink the time
into figuring out how to use
c64 on an emulator on a computer near
you
yes i am telling you unironically there
are two
and only two games that can justify your
time
and both of them are two player and both
of them are suitable for playing for
lengths of say
five to ten minutes with your girlfriend
before you go back to reading aristotle
or otherwise
get on to leading your highly productive
life and number one
on that list is arkanoid
ii the sequel to arcana
this is simply the best version
of the game that exists and with
absolutely zero irony
i can tell you that the atari soft
version
of mario brothers yes that's right the
commodore 64 version that was programmed
by atari is better than the nintendo
version
is better than the arcade version of the
iconic
original mario bros i think curiosity is
a wonderful thing and it's important to
stay curious as an adult
i don't regret being curious about this
system i don't regret doing the little
bit of research
into its library of software that i did
however don't confuse curiosity
with nostalgia nostalgia for 1988
i ain't got it you don't want it and if
that's the road you're on
it is a road only leading to bitter
disappointment
and at some point you've got to look in
the mirror and realize
this is just a waste of your time
if anyone expects just a proud
recitation of the accomplishments of my
administration
i say let's leave that to history
we're not finished yet
you